---
title: Networks 
author: Nikky Leone
date: 2022-09-09 20:55:00 +0800
categories: [Year 7, Computers]
tags: [networks]
---

By the end of this lesson, you will be able to:

- Identify what a network is and how devices in our home connect
  - Create networks for a given scenario 
    - Understand basic network hardware and their uses

# What Is WiFi?

**A wireless network uses radio waves, just like cell phones, televisions and radios do. In fact, communication across a wireless network is a lot like two-way radio communication.**

**A computer's wireless adapter translates data into a radio signal and transmits it using an antenna. A wireless router receives the signal and decodes it. The router sends the information to the internet using a physical, wired ethernet connection.** The process also works in reverse, with the **router receiving information from the internet, translating it into a radio signal and sending it to the computer's wireless adapter.**

# Frequencies 

**The radios used for WiFi communication are very similar to the radios used for walkie-talkies, cell phones and other devices.** They can transmit and receive radio waves, and **they can convert 1s and 0s into radio waves and convert the radio waves back into 1s and 0s.** But WiFi radios have a few notable differences from other radios:

**They transmit at frequencies of 2.4 GHz or 5 GHz. This frequency is considerably higher than the frequencies used for cell phones, walkie-talkies and televisions. The higher frequency allows the signal to carry more data.**

**2.4 GHz connections are now considered somewhat obsolete because they carry lower data speeds than 5 GHz. The 2.4 band continues to see use, however, because the lower frequency can carry over several hundred feet. In ideal conditions, the 5 GHz band has a max range of about 61 metres, but in the real world, it is much more prone to interference from walls, doors and other objects.** The 2.4 band may be faster for a user connecting to a router several rooms away, while 5 GHz will definitely be faster for a close connection.

# WiFi uses [**802.11 networking standards**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IEEE_802.11?scrlybrkr=3e7aec92), which come in several flavors and have evolved over the decades:

802.11b
: **Firstly introduced in 1999, is the slowest and least expensive standard. For a while, its cost made it popular, but now it's less common as faster standards become less expensive.** 802.11b transmits in the 2.4 GHz frequency band of the radio spectrum. **It can handle up to 11 megabits of data per second, and it uses complementary code keying (CCK) modulation to improve speeds.**

802.11ax
: also known as WiFi 6, came to the industry in 2019. **This standard extends the capabilities of 802.11ac in a few key ways. First of all, the new routers allow an even higher data flow rate, up to 9.2 Gbps (gigabits per second).** WiFi 6 also lets manufacturers install many more antennas on one router, accepting multiple connections at once without any worry of interference and slowdown. **Some new devices also connect on a higher 6 GHz band, which is about 20 percent faster than 5GHz in ideal conditions.**

802.11be
: is projected to be the standard by 2024, **and should offer even better range, more connections and faster data rates than any of the previous versions.**

> **WiFi radios can transmit on any frequency band.** Or they can "frequency hop" rapidly between the different bands. Frequency hopping helps reduce interference and lets multiple devices use the same wireless connection simultaneously.
{: .prompt-info }

As long as they all have wireless adapters, several devices can use one router to connect to the internet. **This connection is convenient, virtually invisible and fairly reliable; however, if the router fails or if too many people try to use high-bandwidth applications at the same time, users can experience interference or lose their connections**, although newer, faster standards like 802.11ax will help with that.


